Monks make careful study of a magical energy that most
monastic traditions call ki. This energy is an element
of the magic that suffuses the multiverse-specifically,
the element that flows through living bodies. Monks
harness this power within themselves to create magical
effects and exceed their bodies' physical capabilities,
and some of their special attacks can hinder the flow of
ki in their opponents. Using this energy. monks channel
uncanny speed and strength into their unarmed strikes.
As they gain experience. their martial training and their
mastery of ki gives them more power over their bodies
and the bodies of their foes.

Some monks live entirely apart from the surrounding
population. secluded from any thing that might impede
their spiritual progress. Others are sworn to isolation,
emerging only to serve as spies or assassins at the
command of their leader, a noble patron, or some other
mortal or divine power.

For a monk, becoming an adventurer means leaving
a structured, communal lifestyle to become a wanderer.
Those who leave their cloisters take
their work seriously, approaching their adventures as
personal tests of their physical and spiritual growth.